## Read My Mind: A Color Guessing Game

### Final Project | Fiona Lin | due ~ December 15th

For my final project, I decided to create a color-based guessing game where the player is supposed to try and place a prediction about what color will be generated by pressing a button on the panel provided. In order to make sure that the game isn't too easy, I decided to go with five different options. The interactivity of the game would be based in the arduino side, where players can interact with switches, which will then send inputs to the processing side, allowing corresponding colors to be displayed.  

In order to begin making my game, I first drew a schematic of what my circuit should look like, then built it accordingly. 

Once I had my circuit ready, I began coding my program. In order to ensure that each switch corresponded to only one color, I needed to send a different serial every time a different button was pressed. As such, I set up if statements where if the first button was pressed, it would send the serial "1" and so on until I had five serial inputs set up. Then, on the Processing side, I made sure that the program was able to receive those serials by setting up a vaiable for them, and then applied those variables to another set of if statements that connected each serial to a specific color. 

From there, I went on to code my game using a state machine that moved forward using the space bar. That way I could ensure that the game would not proceed without the player's choice having been made. 

In order to set up a method for comparing the players choice with the randomly generated color, I originally utilized an array with the same values as the serial inputs from arduino. Then, I wanted each value to correspond to a HEX code, and set them up to be compare this way. When I visited the IM Lab, however, Jack suggested that I use the same color picking system for both Arduino and Processing for clarity, so I settled on using the set of if statements since they were easier for me to understand. 

When working on my code, however, I ran into quite a few issues, one of which persisted even until the IM Showcase itself. Most were minor fixes with issues in my state machine or incorrect formatting that caused things not to display correctly, and those were fixed easily after a trip to the lab, but the major issue I ran into was that my game would sometimes display the incorrect result after comparing colors even if the colors displayed are the same. When I went to see Jack about this issue again, I reduced the number of buttons I was using to three so that it would be easier to compare differences in what happened, and after an hour of discussion, we narrowed the issue down the the delay() function that I was using in between comparing the colors and displaying the result screen, which Jack explained as having the program continue to generate colors when anothe function has already taken values and is comparing them. Once I moved that delay outside of my if statements, it seemed as though the issue was fixed, and we tested it several times to make sure. Ih the evening when I added the two other colors back into my code, however, this issue of the incorrect result screen returned, despite me not having changed any of my code apart from adding values. Ass such, I was at a complete loss as to why that was happening, and could not manage to fix the bug. 

This was quite disappointing to me, as on the day of the showcase the bug showed up a couple times and people testing my game were rather (and understandably) confused. I explained it as a result of randomization, but I wasn't super satisfied with how it turned out, so I wished I had been able to identify and fix the bug when I had still been in the lab with Jack. However, I think I gave the project my best effort as someone with little to no understanding of coding outside of this class, so I'm still at least a little proud of all of the skills that I've been able to learn throughout this semester. 


